# Engineer

The engineer is the CLI tool of the engine, It's responsible to start (in dev mode), build and run engine applications.

The flow of the major 3 commands (start, build, run) can be summarized as follows:

### start

#### 1. analyze features

1. We will locate all the features in the current `baseDir` (by default `process.cwd()`).
   Features located by file name conventions and directories.
   It will take the current `baseDir` and (if provided, either from [[engine config|utils.engineer.config]] or through a
   cli argument) the `featureDiscoveryRoot`, and will look for files with the `*.feature.(t|j)s` files in 3 places
   inside there:
   a. current root
   b. `feature` folder (currently only 1 level deep)
   c. `fixtures` folder (currently only 2 levels deep)

2. After locating all feature files, we will analyze them. we will locate all dependent features, exported environments,
   resolved contexts for every feature and contextual environment declared and location of setup and context files for
   every feature and environment

#### 2. running node environments

If a `feature` flag is provided to the cli, it will run all the environments which needs to be executed in a node
process for that feature.
We have 3 methods of running them - `same-server`, `new-server`, `forked`, and these methods apply to all node
environments launchings, and are set either from [[engine config|utils.engineer.config]] or through a cli argument
name `nodeEnvironmentsMode`.

Every node environment launched as a socket server environment, and it's address is used as an entrypoint for every
other environment trying to communicate with it.

#### 3. compiling all browser environments

Will create a webpack compiler, and for every browser environment
found (`window`|`iframe`|`webworker`|`electron-renderer`) will generate an entry, which when evaluated will run a method
which will parse from the URL params the feature name (`feature` param) and the config name (`config` param) and will
start the engine application with the provided feature, on that environment.

- engineer will use the webpack.config located in the `baseDir` to bundle the entry it generates for each environments.

- the values provided to the `--feature` or the `--config` flags will be used as the default features, so that if no URL
  params were passed, these are the feature and the configuration the engine application of that environment will start
  with.

- if the `feature` and `--singleFeature` flags are provided, only this feature and it's dependencies will be included in
  the bundle for every environment that is used for this feature.

**Generated by engineer entrypoint**

Each entrypoint generated by engineer for every environment, is a js file, with the name of the environment, which
purpose is to load all context, environment specifig setup and feature files into that bundle.

For any `iframe`, `window` or `react-renderer` environment an html is also created, which imports the bundle in a script
tag in the head.

Each entrypoint will `fetch` from a url (by default `/configs`) the configuration provided by the `config` URL param (or
cli flag).

The engineer dev server or the `run` command will respond to these requests and return the configuration for that
environment.

If the current running feature has running node environments, the mentioned above servers will also respond with a
configuration to the communication feature which states the `topology`. this data is later used
by [The socket client initializer](../../entities/communication/initializers.md#socket-client-initializer) to connect between
browser environment and node environments launched in the previous step

#### 4. show a link to the dashboard, using which it is possible to run all features found, and launch their node environments

#### 5. if `--feature` flag is provided, open browser with relevant query parameters

### build

#### 1. Analyze Features

#### 2. Compile Web entrypoints

#### 3. Generate a manifest file.

This file will store the results of the feature
analyzation, to later be consumed by the `run` phase.
It will also store some metadata like the provided feature name and config name

### run

#### 1. read and analyze the Manifest file

#### 2. Run node environments

#### 3. open the browser for the selected feature
